docs/deploying.rst, before:

.. _deploying:

===================================
Deploying projects and dependencies
===================================

Deploying projects
------------------

To deploy a Scrapy project to Scrapy Cloud, navigate into the project's folder
and run::

    shub deploy [TARGET]

where ``[TARGET]`` is either a project name defined in ``scrapinghub.yml`` or a
numerical Scrapinghub project ID. If you have configured a default target in
your ``scrapinghub.yml``, you can leave out the parameter completely::

    $ shub deploy
    Packing version 3af023e-master
    Deploying to Scrapy Cloud project "12345"
    {"status": "ok", "project": 12345, "version": "3af023e-master", "spiders": 1}
    Run your spiders at: https://app.zyte.com/p/12345/

You can also deploy your project from a Python egg, or build one without
deploying::

    $ shub deploy --egg egg_name --version 1.0.0
    Using egg: egg_name
    Deploying to Scrapy Cloud project "12345"
    {"status": "ok", "project": 12345, "version": "1.0.0", "spiders": 1}
    Run your spiders at: https://app.zyte.com/p/12345/

::

    $ shub deploy --build-egg egg_name
    Writing egg to egg_name


.. _deploying-dependencies:

Deploying dependencies
----------------------

Sometimes your project will depend on third party libraries that are not
available on Scrapy Cloud. You can easily upload these by specifying a
`requirements file`_::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: requirements.txt

Note that this requirements file is an *extension* of the `Scrapy Cloud
stack`_, and therefore should not contain packages that are already part of the
stack, such as ``scrapy``.

In case you use `pipenv`_ you may also specify a ``Pipfile``::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: Pipfile

In this case the ``Pipfile`` must be locked and ``pipenv`` available in the 
environment.

.. note::

    To install pipenv tool, use ``pip install pipenv`` or check `its documentation
    <https://pipenv.readthedocs.io/>`_.

A requirements.txt file will be created out of the ``Pipfile`` so like the
requirements file above, it should not contain packages that are already part
of the stack.

If you use `Poetry`_ you can specify your ``pyproject.toml``::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: pyproject.toml

A ``poetry.lock`` file must be available, that will be used for determining the
full requirements.

.. note::

    `Poetry`_ is a tool for dependency management and packaging in Python.

When your dependencies cannot be specified in a requirements file, e.g.
because they are not publicly available, you can supply them as Python eggs::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: requirements.txt
      eggs:
        - privatelib.egg
        - path/to/otherlib.egg

Alternatively, if you cannot or don't want to supply Python eggs, you can also
build your own Docker image to be used on Scrapy Cloud. See
:ref:`deploy-custom-image`.

.. _requirements file: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/user_guide/#requirements-files

.. _pipenv: https://github.com/pypa/pipenv

.. _Poetry: https://poetry.eustace.io/

.. _choose-custom-stack:

Choosing a Scrapy Cloud stack
-----------------------------

You can specify the `Scrapy Cloud stack`_ to deploy your spider to by adding a
``stack`` entry to your configuration::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
    stack: scrapy:1.3-py3

It is also possible to define the stack per project for advanced use cases::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default:
        id: 12345
        stack: scrapy:1.3-py3
      prod: 33333  # will use Scrapinghub's default stack

.. _`Scrapy Cloud stack`: https://helpdesk.scrapinghub.com/support/solutions/articles/22000200402-scrapy-cloud-stacks

Commit message:

Add support for current Poetry versions
The previous lockfile parser did not work reliably for Poetry 1.2 and
later due to the new lockfile format (e.g., it did not take markers
into consideration). This solution should work for all Poetry versions
since it uses the `poetry export` command to generate a
`requirements.txt` file.

docs/deploying.rst, after:

.. _deploying:

===================================
Deploying projects and dependencies
===================================

Deploying projects
------------------

To deploy a Scrapy project to Scrapy Cloud, navigate into the project's folder
and run::

    shub deploy [TARGET]

where ``[TARGET]`` is either a project name defined in ``scrapinghub.yml`` or a
numerical Scrapinghub project ID. If you have configured a default target in
your ``scrapinghub.yml``, you can leave out the parameter completely::

    $ shub deploy
    Packing version 3af023e-master
    Deploying to Scrapy Cloud project "12345"
    {"status": "ok", "project": 12345, "version": "3af023e-master", "spiders": 1}
    Run your spiders at: https://app.zyte.com/p/12345/

You can also deploy your project from a Python egg, or build one without
deploying::

    $ shub deploy --egg egg_name --version 1.0.0
    Using egg: egg_name
    Deploying to Scrapy Cloud project "12345"
    {"status": "ok", "project": 12345, "version": "1.0.0", "spiders": 1}
    Run your spiders at: https://app.zyte.com/p/12345/

::

    $ shub deploy --build-egg egg_name
    Writing egg to egg_name


.. _deploying-dependencies:

Deploying dependencies
----------------------

Sometimes your project will depend on third party libraries that are not
available on Scrapy Cloud. You can easily upload these by specifying a
`requirements file`_::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: requirements.txt

Note that this requirements file is an *extension* of the `Scrapy Cloud
stack`_, and therefore should not contain packages that are already part of the
stack, such as ``scrapy``.

In case you use `pipenv`_ you may also specify a ``Pipfile``::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: Pipfile

In this case the ``Pipfile`` must be locked and ``pipenv`` available in the 
environment.

.. note::

    To install pipenv tool, use ``pip install pipenv`` or check `its documentation
    <https://pipenv.readthedocs.io/>`_.

A requirements.txt file will be created out of the ``Pipfile`` so like the
requirements file above, it should not contain packages that are already part
of the stack.

If you use `Poetry`_ you can specify your ``pyproject.toml``::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: pyproject.toml

This will use Poetry's ``export`` command to create a requirements.txt file. For
Poetry >= 2.0 this command is no longer installed by default and needs to manually
added as described in the
`plugin's documentation<https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-plugin-export>`_.
If ``poetry.lock``does not exist yet, it will be created during this process.

.. note::

    `Poetry`_ is a tool for dependency management and packaging in Python.

When your dependencies cannot be specified in a requirements file, e.g.
because they are not publicly available, you can supply them as Python eggs::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
      prod: 33333

    requirements:
      file: requirements.txt
      eggs:
        - privatelib.egg
        - path/to/otherlib.egg

Alternatively, if you cannot or don't want to supply Python eggs, you can also
build your own Docker image to be used on Scrapy Cloud. See
:ref:`deploy-custom-image`.

.. _requirements file: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/user_guide/#requirements-files

.. _pipenv: https://github.com/pypa/pipenv

.. _Poetry: https://poetry.eustace.io/

.. _choose-custom-stack:

Choosing a Scrapy Cloud stack
-----------------------------

You can specify the `Scrapy Cloud stack`_ to deploy your spider to by adding a
``stack`` entry to your configuration::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default: 12345
    stack: scrapy:1.3-py3

It is also possible to define the stack per project for advanced use cases::

    # project_directory/scrapinghub.yml

    projects:
      default:
        id: 12345
        stack: scrapy:1.3-py3
      prod: 33333  # will use Scrapinghub's default stack

.. _`Scrapy Cloud stack`: https://helpdesk.scrapinghub.com/support/solutions/articles/22000200402-scrapy-cloud-stacks
